Update of README of calibration leg (#23)
cms-ngt-hlt/sakura: Calibrations/NGTCalibrationLoop/README.md

# The NGT Demonstator Calibration Leg

## Overview

> This directory implements the calibration leg workflow of our NGT demonstrator. It is designed to run the calibration loop on either of our calibration nodes (`ngtfu-c2b01-43-01` and `ngtfu-c2b02-43-01`) for the NGT demonstrator, through monitoring ongoing collisions at CMS and rederiving calibrations (for now only EcalPedestals and SiStripBad) up to the upload to the conditions database of CMS. Each calibration loop is implemented as a finite state machine (FSM) that monitors input data, processes it, and produces the output for the next step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This directory implements the calibration leg workflow of our NGT demonstrator. It is designed to run the calibration loop on either of our calibration nodes (`ngtfu-c2b01-43-01` and `ngtfu-c2b02-43-01`) for the NGT demonstrator, through monitoring ongoing collisions at CMS and rederiving calibrations (for now only EcalPedestals and SiStrip Bad Components) up to the upload to the conditions database of CMS. Each calibration loop is implemented as a finite state machine (FSM) that monitors input data, processes it, and produces the output for the next step:
```

- **Step 3**: Monitors for step 2 output files, merges them, produces ALCARECO root files
- **Step 4**: Monitors for step 3 output files, performs harvesting, produces and uploads final payload to condDB to be consumed by the NGT Global Tag

### Workflow Data Flow

```
EOS RAW Files
    ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Step 2: Raw → RECO                  │
│ - Monitors OMS for runs             │
│ - Processes LS incrementally        │
│ - Output: run*_LS*_step2.root       │
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
    ↓ (witness files: *_step2_job.txt)
┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Step 3: RECO → ALCARECO             │
│ - Monitors for Step 2 outputs       │
│ - Batches files into ALCA jobs      │
│ - Output: PromptCalibProd*.root     │
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
    ↓ (witness files: step3_job.txt)
┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Step 4: ALCARECO → DB               │
│ - Monitors for Step 3 outputs       │
│ - Harvests calibration constants    │
│ - Output: {calibration}.db          │
└─────────────────────────────────────┘
    ↓
Database Upload (manual or automatic)
```

> (this workflow of the data flow is generated by ClaudeAI.)

Reviewer: :)

## Setting up and running

The `transitions` package and the omsAPI folder within the [oms-api-client](https://gitlab.cern.ch/cmsoms/oms-api-client).

> All was launched in a tmux session. Preparing to launch the step 2 script requires:

Reviewer: perhaps write down also instruction for the pedestrians (me) about `tmux`?

```bash
source /opt/offline/cmsset_default.sh
kinit ${USER}@CERN.CH # in case we are setting up step 2
cmsrel CMSSW_15_0_16
cd CMSSW_15_0_16/src
cmsenv
git clone git@github.com:cms-ngt-hlt/sakura.git
git clone git@github.com:pytransitions/transitions.git
cd transitions
python3 setup.py install --user
cd ../sakura/Calibrations/NGTCalibrationLoop
git clone ssh://git@gitlab.cern.ch:7999/cmsoms/oms-api-client.git
cp oms-api-client/omsAPI .
mkdir /tmp/ngt/
cp -r ngtParameters.jsn calibrationYAML/ /tmp/ngt/ngtParameters.jsn 
python3 NGTLoopStep2.py -c EcalPedestals
```

For step 4:
```bash
sudo -u sakura -i
source /opt/offline/cmsset_default.sh
cmsrel CMSSW_15_0_16
cd CMSSW_15_0_16/src
cmsenv
git clone git@github.com:cms-ngt-hlt/sakura.git
git clone git@github.com:pytransitions/transitions.git
cd transitions
python3 setup.py install --user
cd ../sakura/Calibrations/NGTCalibrationLoop
python3 NGTLoopStep4.py -c EcalPedestals
```

For step3, either instructions can be followed, and to launch:
```bash

> python3 NGTLoopStep3.py -c EcalPedestals

Reviewer: as above

`NGTLoopStep2.py` continuously queries OMS for collisions run that started within the last 8 hours (which is the time we have to rederive calibrations and the time for which we buffer). Once a suitable run is found, a working directory is created where we start processing the RAW files available on EOS. The jobs are launched `cmsDriver.py` command. The possible states within this loop are:

- **NotRunning** - Waiting for a new collisions run to process
- **WaitingForLS** - Monitoring for new lumi sections (LS)
- **CheckingLSForProcess** - Evaluating available LS for processing
- **PreparingLS** - Preparing a batch of LS for job submission
- **PreparingFinalLS** - Preparing the final batch when run ends
- **PreparingExpressJobs** - Creating job scripts
- **LaunchingExpressJobs** - Submitting jobs to process LS
- **CleanupState** - Finalizing run processing

This step also maintains separate log files for different types of logs --- a complete collection of all can be found in `/tmp/ngt/NGTLoopStep2_ALL.log`, to monitor activity, one can do `tail -f /tmp/ngt/NGTLoopStep2_ALL.log`. This step has to be run on a personal cmsusr account due to access needed to EOS.

### Step 3 + 4 loop

> Step 3 loop processes the output root files of step2 in order to produce the ALCARECO files. The FSM is similar to the one of step 2 described above, used to submit the ALCA jobs. Step 3 can be run on either sakura or personal cmsusr account, it does not really matter here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Step 3 loop processes the output root files of step2 in order to produce the `ALCARECO` files. The FSM is similar to the one of step 2 described above, used to submit the `ALCA` jobs. Step 3 can be run on either sakura or personal `cmsusr` account, it does not really matter here.
```
